# ``AStar``

Contains functionality for performing A\* path searches on a graph or map.

## Overview

The A\* algorithm is straightforward:

* Add the `start` location to a minimum priority queue.
* Begin looping while there are items in the queue.
* Take the "top" element that has the lowest cost.
* If the element is the `end` location, exit the loop and return the found path.
* Otherwise, ask an oracle for locations adjacent to the current location.
* For each adjacent location, if not already visited *or* the cost to add the location is less than the cost of the
previous visits:
  * Mark the location as visited along with the costs involved to visit it.
  * Push the location + cost to the min priority queue.
* Repeat the loop.

## Points to remember:

1. There are **two** cost calculations involved: one that is a known cost at a location, and one that is a heuristic or
estimate. They are summed together to make a total cost, and this is used to order the locations in the min priority
queue.
2. The min cost at a visited location can go down if another path reaches it in fewer steps or with lower known costs.

As long as the known costs remain fixed across multiple paths and the heuristic cost is an accurate estimate of the cost
to reach a destination, then the A\* algorithm is guaranteed to return a minimal cost path (if one exists), though there
could be multiple paths that have the same minimal cost value.

## Usage

In the ``AStar`` module, all of the specifics regarding location representation and cost calculations have been
abstracted away from the code in the ``AStar/find(oracle:start:end:)`` routine, so one should be able to use it as-is
regardless of how an oracle represents locations or calculates costs.

As documented in ``GraphOracle``, we need to provide a Swift `struct` with some necessary functionality. To start, we
need location information and cost information. Here we are using ``Coord2D`` for map coordinates and an `Int` for cost
storage.

```swift
struct Oracle: GraphOracle {
  typealias Cost: Int
  typealias Location: Coord2D
```

Just to be cute, we will use an 8x8 map of emoji symbols to denote the terrain.

```swift
  enum Symbols {
    case 🚩, 🌊, 🗻, 🌲, 🏁
  }

  let map: [[Symbols]]= [
    [.🌊, .🌲, .🌲, .🌲, .🚩, .🌲, .🌲, .🌲],
    [.🌊, .🌲, .🌲, .🌲, .🌲, .🌲, .🌲, .🌲],
    [.🌲, .🌲, .🌲, .🌲, .🗻, .🌲, .🌲, .🌲],
    [.🌲, .🌲, .🗻, .🗻, .🗻, .🗻, .🗻, .🌲],
    [.🌲, .🌲, .🗻, .🌲, .🏁, .🗻, .🌊, .🌊],
    [.🌲, .🌲, .🗻, .🌲, .🗻, .🌲, .🌲, .🌊],
    [.🌊, .🌲, .🗻, .🌲, .🌲, .🌲, .🗻, .🗻],
    [.🌊, .🌊, .🌲, .🌲, .🌲, .🌲, .🗻, .🌲]
  ]

  let bounds = (x: 0..<8, y: 0..<8)
```

Our cost function just translates what is found in the map at X, Y into a numerical value:

```swift
  func cost(entering location: Self.Location) -> Self.Cost {
    switch map[location.y][location.x] {
    case .🌲: return 1
    case .🌊: return 2
    case .🗻: return 99
    default: return 0
    }
  }
```

Next, we need to signal if a location is valid or not. Here, we check if the given map location is in bounds and the
location does not hold a stone/rock/boulder/mountain.

 ```swift
  func canVisit(location: Self.Location) -> Bool { 
    bounds.x.contains(location.x) && bounds.y.contains(location.y) && map[location.y][location.x] != .🗻
  }
```

Finally, we need a generator of adjacent locations for a given one:

```swift
  func adjacentLocations(to: Self.Location) -> [Self.Location] {
    [(-1, 0), (1, 0), (0, -1), (0, 1)].map { location + Offset2D(x: $0.0, y: $0.1) } .filter { canVisit(location: $0) }
  }
}
```

Note that we do not need to provide a definition for ``GraphOracle/estimatedCost(from:to:)`` since that is provided for us
as our `Location` associated type is ``Coord2D``.

With `Oracle` defined  we can now ask ``AStar/find(oracle:start:end:)`` to find the shortest path from 🚩 to 🏁:

```swift
Let start = Coord2D(x: 4, y: 0) // location of 🚩 above
let end = Coord2D(x: 4, y: 4)   // location of 🏁 above
let path = AStar.find(
  oracle: Oracle(), 
  start: start, 
  end: end
)
```

The resulting path contains 17 ``Position`` elements -- the start and end positions plus 15 steps depicted below by an 
adventurer 🏃.

```swift
🌊🌲🌲🌲🚩🌲🌲🌲
🌊🌲🌲🏃🏃🌲🌲🌲
🌲🏃🏃🏃🗻🌲🌲🌲
🌲🏃🗻🗻🗻🗻🗻🌲
🌲🏃🗻🏃🏁🗻🌊🌊
🌲🏃🗻🏃🗻🌲🌲🌊
🌊🏃🗻🏃🌲🌲🗻🗻
🌊🏃🏃🏃🌲🌲🗻🌲
```

The total cost of the path is 16, with 14 🌲 costing 1 each, and 1 🌊 costing 2 (the start/end positions have 0 costs). Notice
that the path goes around all 🗻 since the `canVisit` method in our `Oracle` does not allow visiting their locations.

You may have noticed that the only adjacent locations generated by this oracle are on the X or Y axis of the originating
location. We can allow for diagonals by simply adjusting this function to return them:

```swift
  func adjacentLocations(to: Self.Location) -> [Self.Location] {
    [(-1, 0), (1, 0), (0, -1), (0, 1), (-1, -1), (-1, 1), (1, -1), (1, 1)]
      .map { location + Offset2D(x: $0.0, y: $0.1) }
      .filter { canVisit(location: $0) }
  }
```

Rerunning now returns a new, shorter path containing only 7 elements:

```
🌊🌲🌲🌲🚩🌲🌲🌲
🌊🌲🌲🌲🌲🏃🌲🌲
🌲🌲🌲🌲🗻🌲🏃🌲
🌲🌲🗻🗻🗻🗻🗻🏃
🌲🌲🗻🌲🏁🗻🏃🌊
🌲🌲🗻🌲🗻🏃🌲🌊
🌊🌲🗻🌲🌲🌲🗻🗻
🌊🌊🌲🌲🌲🌲🗻🌲
```

The total cost is now just 6 (4 🌲 and 1 🌊).
